Today we review the real deal behind
Neva Bupa Reassure 3.0. No eyes glinting
praises that sound like poetry is about
brands and plans because people like us
don't want fluffy features. We want the
real deal. Hi, this is Mavi Chopra, CEO
founder at Bishop, India's only
independent insurance research platform.
In this video, we will look at the key
highlights of this specific plan. We'll
also understand the fine print behind
these key highlights. We will then do a
quick roll call of all the core benefits
of this plan. And last, we will do a
comparison with similar products in the
market which have similar features. The
comparison will not only be about
products but key metrics and price and
finally I will share my verdict. So
NEAB's latest plan reassure 3.0 could as
well be called the SUPuch plan. It aims
at covering absolutely everything a
common man wishes in his dreams. You get
unlimited cover while your premium stays
the same forever. Covers all your
medicines, protects you against every
disease including existing ones from day
zero and also works outside India. Let's
start with understanding the six key
highlights of this product one by one.
Highlight number one, infinite sum in
short. Yes, this plan offers an infinite
sum inured which means that while all
other plans would have given you a cover
of five lakh, 10 lakh or maybe even 1
cr, this plan has an infinite sum
insured option basically which means
that there is no limit to how much you
can claim in a year or over years. The
interesting part is that it comes at a
very very cheap price almost half the
price of another plan that also offers
infinite cover. The pricing is great but
there is a catch that we will talk about
at the end of this video. Highlight
number two, zero waiting period for
around 145 listed diseases. Some of
these are shown on this screen right
now. This is another great feature that
allows you to cover your pre-existing
diseases from day one. The insurer has
currently listed around 145 illnesses
like diabetes, asthma, hypertension,
depression, gastritis, anxiety which can
be covered from day one. You just have
to pay extra premium per disease and you
can remove the standard waiting period
of 3 years from these specific diseases
and make it covered from day one. The
important fine print in this is that
this is of course subject to the
insurers's approval. You will have to
fill a proposal form and the insurer may
approve or not approve the cover from
day one. Two, this list is of course
subject to change. So do check the
latest list before you end up buying
this plan. Highlight number three, lock
the clock. Now usually as your age
progresses, health insurance premiums
rise. This is something that people
often complain about that I have not
made a claim then why did my premiums
rise in the higher versions of this plan
you don't age in the eyes of the insurer
by this feature called lock and clock
your age will be locked when you buy the
policy and you will pay the premium for
that age even when you grow older until
you make a claim only once you make a
claim then the regular premiums for your
real age would apply. apply. Here's a
quick fine print that you should be
aware of. If the premium grid for your
plan for your frozen age changes, then
your premium will change. Let me give
you an example. Say you're buying this
when you are 32. Now you will continue
paying what a 32 year old pays during
renewals. But say the premium grid for
all 32 year olds for this plan increases
then you will also pay the increased
premium. Before we move to the other
three features, the other three
highlights that I want to discuss with
you, let me explain you what is Bayshak.
Bayak is India's only independent
insurance platform that connects you to
the right experts, real industry experts
from the market. These are not freshers.
These are not call center folks. These
are actual experts with real experience
helping customers with products and most
importantly claims. If at any point in
time you're worried or overwhelmed about
the features that we discussing and you
find it very complicated, I would
suggest that you best consult one of our
experts on the platform. Just have to go
to bashak.org og and click on book a
call with an expert and set up a call
and they will help you there on. Okay,
moving on to the remaining three
highlights of the plan. The next
highlight is called borderless. While
India has really good healthcare, there
are a lot of people want to travel
abroad for complicated treatment. In the
higher versions of this plan, you can
add a cover which will allow you to
travel abroad for treatment. Let's
understand the pricing of this add-on
quickly with an example. Say Mr. Kumar
is 30 years old and is covering himself,
his wife and a kid for let's say 10
lakhs health insurance. Let's say in the
elite plan. The regular premium for this
plan would be around 12,000. For another
rupees 8,700,
Mr. Kumar can get a borderless cover for
the same 10 lakh. Yes, of course it
sounds expensive and it is expensive,
but then the cover is also
international. Okay, let's move to the
fifth highlight of this product. It's
called Well Consult. It's basically an
OPD rider that most insurance companies
have now started providing catering to
the demand of most customers which is
basically saying that I want health
insurance that is more than covering
hospitalization expenses. In this
product, you can opt for 1 to 5x of your
premium as your OPD cover. Let's
understand the pricing of this rider
with the same example of Mr. Kumar. Mr.
Kumar is a 30-year-old who's covering
himself, his wife, and one kid. And
let's say he's paying a premium of
25,000 rupees and he opts for 5x cover
for OPD. The premium that he will have
to pay will be close to around 6,000
rupees. I think 6,000 rupees as a
premium to get an OPD rider which covers
you for regular prescribed medicines,
prescribed medical tests and doctor
consultations is not bad. The only
condition you must know about this
specific rider is that insurance company
is encouraging you to go cashless with
this rider. In case you go for
reimbursement, then you will have to pay
20% of the cost from your pocket.
Basically, you'll have to pay 20% coay.
Okay? And the sixth highlight of this
product, it's called the NEA Bupa 1
membership. Basically, it is an
executive health checkup with almost
close to 24 tests. And this includes
some really expensive tests like
sonography, treadmill tests, and I think
colonoscopy and mamogram and also PSA.
This add-on for the same family, Mr.
Kumar's family, will cost around 1,800
rupees. This is definitely a good add-on
to go for but as per various reports
only 10 to 20% people actually end up
utilizing a free medical checkup. So
this is a good deal only if you're sure
you will actually utilize this feature.
Now we will do a quick roll call on the
core features in this plan. This we will
go quickly because these are basically
features that you expect out of any
comprehensive plan in the market. So the
first one is room rent limit. So this
product has four variants and each
variant basically maps you to a kind of
room you typically would be choosing.
You could choose the classic plan which
will basically give you the general ward
as an option. If you choose basically
the select option then they will allow
you to basically use the shared room
option. And over and above that there
would be a plan which is called the
elite plan which allows you to use all
kinds of rooms except the suit room in
the hospital. And then there is a black
plan which allows you to use all rooms
including suit. Usually looking at the
price I would choose an elite or a black
plan because it will allow me to choose
any kind of room and I can avoid the
proportionate deductions in case the
cheaper rooms are not available. Second
surgery limits. There are no surgery
limits. Organ donor, are there any
limits? No, there are no limits. Modern
treatments, there are no limits for the
elite and the black plan. But if you
choose the cheaper plans, then there is
a very stringent 1 lak rupees limit for
modern treatments and hence you should
be very aware if you're buying the
cheaper plans. Restoration as a feature,
yes, the best-in-class which covers most
use cases is something that is available
in this plan. The waiting periods in
this plan are all standard waiting
periods from the 30-day waiting period
to the 2 years waiting period for
specified illnesses and the three-year
waiting period for peeds. But but but
there is one important fine print you
must know for this plan. This plan does
not have any mention of daycare
procedures. Usually most comprehensive
plans beyond covering the 24 hours plus
treatments now also cover all procedures
that take less than 24 hours
particularly due to advancements in
medical science. This is what we call
the daycare treatment. NEA as an
insurance company has taken a very
different route to covering daycare
procedures. Instead of daycare
procedures, it's covering something
which is called hospitalizations above 2
hours. This basically should cover all
daycare treatments. But look, I'm not a
doctor. So I'm not really sure if there
can be a daycare procedure with
hospitalization that is less than 2
hours and hence not covered under the
nwaba plan. So you need to understand
that if you're opting for this plan,
then you may not get a cover of daycare
procedures that start from let's say 0
hours to 2 hours. Okay. So now we've
understood the six key highlights. We've
also done a roll call of all the
important core features. Now let's look
at the pricing.
So let's look at the same example of Mr.
Kumar who 30-year-old and basically is
covering himself, his wife and a small
kid, right? What would be the premium if
they choose unlimited suminsured for all
the four varants? So the classic variant
which covers you for general ward the
premium including GST would be 19,879
for the select plan which covers you for
twin sharing rooms it will basically be
22,843
for the elite plan all except suit rooms
are covered under the elite plan the
premium would be 25,979
rupees and for the all supreme the black
plan which covers all kinds of rooms the
premium premium would be 30,00014.
So 3014
would be the premium. All these premiums
are including GST. So basically if you
look at it, you're choosing a general
ward uh kind of uh plan where you can
only choose the general ward. The
premium would be around 20,000 and the
range goes to about 30,000 where you can
choose any kind of room and you get all
the key benefits without any
restrictions in this plan. So we've
completed understanding all the key
features that differentiates this plan
from the market. We've also understood
and done a roll call on all the core
features. We understood the pricing
difference between the different plans.
What we also need to go through is what
is the performance of NEA BOPA on key
claim performance metrics and that's
what I'm going to take next. So quickly
the claim the these basic metrics are
metrics that we have taken over a
weighted average for the last five years
performance on claims. The first metric
is the claim settlement in 30 days
ratio. This basically is a metric that
tells you how many claims were settled
in the first 30 days by the insurance
company. The ratio here that I'm seeing
is 99.68%.
which means that it's a fairly good
performance in terms of settling claims
in the first 30 days. The second ratio
is the incurred claim ratio. This a
ratio which tells you what is the amount
of premium an insurance company's
charging and what percentage of that
goes into claims. The ratio for NEA bupa
for the last 5 years as a weighted
average is 59.54%.
This is quite low in my comparison
because it basically tells you either
the premiums of this company are very
high or basically the claim payouts are
very low compared to the premium that
it's collecting. Now the premiums of
NEABOPA usually are quite low compared
to the other competitors it has in the
market. The third ratio is the claim
complaints ratio which tells you
basically that how many complaints is
the insurance company receiving for
10,000 claims. The ratio for NEA bupa
for the last 5 years approximately is
42.92.
This definitely is on the higher side
when I compare it to its competitors.
The last one is claim rejection ratio.
This tells you what percentage of claims
is an insurance company rejecting over a
period of again 5 years. Like I said in
this case the ratio is 8% 8.05% claims
are rejected by naabupa over a period of
time. Again this is much higher than the
other companies that I have usually seen
in the market. So these are the ratios
that you should be aware of. This is
like a complete study of this plan. NA
bupa reassure 3.0. It covered basically
all the key highlights all the roll call
of all the core features. We understood
the premium and we've also understood
all the important claim performance
metrics of this plan. So at any point in
time if you feel very overwhelmed with
all the information that you're getting
and all the options that are available
in the market and you've already been
considering another option and now
you're seeing this plan NEA bupar 3.0
and you're confused. I would recommend
that you consult our experts on the
platform. These experts are not typical
call center guys nor they are
salespersons. They are real experts that
we have curated from the market. Real
experience of minimum 5 years and
average experience of 10 years in health
insurance and health insurance claims.
They will consult you. They will
handhold you not only to find the right
plan for your needs but help you buy the
plan right and help you all the way till
claims and even when you have to fight
with the insurance company in case there
is a dispute. Do check out the link in
the description and try us out. It's
free and we promise no spam. Okay. So,
we've completed basically understanding
all the key highlights of this plan that
differentiates this plan from the
market. Around six highlights. Six, we
did a quick roll call of all the core
features that you need to understand in
this plan. Third, we compared the
pricing of all the key variants in this
plan to understand what is the range of
the pricing that this product offers you
at. And now we will basically go through
the comparison of this plan with the
nearest closest competitor that it has.
While NEAPA has been claiming that it is
the first truly infinite or unlimited
plan in the market, we beg to differ.
There has always been a plan in the
market from ICA Lombard called the
Elevate which compares very closely to
this plan and also offers the infinite
or the unlimited cover that NEA bupai
has offered with reassure 3.0.
Let's quickly compare this plan reassure
3.0 with elevate to understand how
elevate and these plans are different.
Okay. So we are not going to go through
the entire comparison because everybody
all of us will get quite bored with the
entire comparison. We are just looking
at the key differences so that you have
a good picture in the mind of what
you're getting with elevate in ICS
Lombard and what you would be getting in
reassured 3.0 with Dwaba. Okay. So the
first difference between Reassure 3.0
and we have taken the Elite plan. So for
simplicity versus ICIA Elevate is that
Reassure 3.0 the Elite plan will offer
you all rooms except the suit room. But
ICIA Elevate by default will offer you a
private room. And if you want to choose
a room above private room then you will
have to choose an add-on and pay for it
separately. The add-on is not very
expensive. I just quickly had checked it
before we started this video and it
charges around 400 to 500 rupees over
the premium for the same Mr. Pumar
family, right? Um daycare procedure.
This is the most important highlight of
differentiation between NAPA's plan and
all of the plans in the market. NAVA
Bupa is basically saying that we don't
care about daycare. We basically are
saying that all hospitalizations above 2
hours we will cover. Whereas that is
very different from what ICIC elevate
says. They cover all daycare procedures
and they've added one more line item in
their plan which says that all two plus
R hospitalizations also covered. So it
is offering a little better advantage to
you over NEA Bupa specifically on this
feature. The third is restoration in
reassure 3.0 the elite plan your
restoration starts immediately from the
first claim onwards. In case of ICIC
elevate, it will start from the second
claim onwards. Uh the other comparison
would be the OPD add-on. In case of
reassure 3.0, the elite plan, like I
said, you can get an OPD cover of up to
5x of the premium. So if your premium is
20,000, you can get an OPD cover of 1
lak rupees in a year. If you compare
that to ICIC elevate, they're offering
you a maximum cover of 10,000 rupees on
OPD. there's a 5,000 add-on and there's
a 10,000 add-on. Now there if in case of
the same OPD feature if you basically go
for NEAB's OPD uh cover which is called
well consult and if you offer a
reimbursement facility then you will
have to pay 20% from your pocket as
copay if you compare that to ICIS
elevate there's no mention of any copay
for reimbursement claims next is global
cover as an add-on how is it different
between reassure 3.0 0 and ICICIC
elevate. So reassure 3.0 the elite plan
offers you a global cover of 10 lakhs to
50 lakhs. If you go for the black plan
it can actually offer you up to 5
crores. Right? In ICIC elevate you can
take up to three crores. I think it's
not up to three crores. it. If you take
the uh the abroad plan which is
basically getting a cover for global
cover abroad uh treatment plan then you
will get a 3 crore cover on treatment
abroad right in case of ICS Lombard's
elevate plan there is a limitation on
the number of days you can use the
global cover for it's typically 45 days
in one trip and 90 days during a year so
if you're basically traveling multiple
times during uh a particular year where
you bought this health insurance with
this global cover add-on the total
travel time that you should have should
be 45 days for one trip and 90 days
throughout for a year right uh the
network is also different in case of
global cover uh that both these
insurance companies offer in case of
reassure 3.0
They are saying that there is no network
you can get treated anywhere and compare
that to ICISA elevate it seems that they
offer you a cover only in their network
hospitals right another important
differentiation between reassured 3.0
and elevate from ICIS Lombard is that
ICIS Lombard's elevate gives you a
global cover only up to 65 years of age.
Once you cross 65, the global cover
stops. This is not a restriction that
NEA bupai has put in their plan. So this
is a great feature that NEA Bupai has
come up with. Now we will compare the
claim metrics the performance of the
five years the last five years and it's
on a weighted average that we've done.
So the earliest metric will have the
highest weightage and the metric for the
fifth year would have the lowest
weightage. So that we are giving all the
performance that has happened recently
more weightage over weightage for the
claims that have happened or the
performance that has happened in the
fourth or the fifth year. This is
something that we've done so that you
know we look at the recency factor also
and we also average out any kind of
small blips that have happened because
of some exceptions. Okay. So let's
compare both. I'm just going to change
the orientation once. Okay. So speed of
claim settlement comparison between
ICICI elevate and reassure 3.0. ICIC
elevate has a 99.62%
basically claims that get settled in the
first 30 days. It's very similar to
reassure 3.0 NEVA bupa which is around
99.68%.
ICR incurred claim ratio for NEA bupa is
around 59.54%.
In case of ICIC Lombard it is 81.98%.
Basically IC Lombard is collecting 100
rupees as premium and paying 81 rupees
or 82 rupees as claim. Compared that to
NAB which is basically collecting 100
rupees as premium and paying around 59
to 60 rupees as claim. So neiabupa in my
view has a worse ICR compared to ICS
Lombard. Claim complaints there's a
stark difference. ICS Lombard basically
has 11 claims for sorry has 11
complaints for every 10,000 claims
compared at to nabupa which has around
43 complaints for 10,000 claims which is
almost like four times the number of
complaints that ICS has received. claim
rejection ratio both NEAW bupai and ICS
Lombard have do not have a good ratio.
Uh NEA bupai is at 8% and ICS Lombard is
at around 11.87%
which is almost like 12%. So IC Lombard
is also not fair fairing well in terms
of the number of claims that it is
rejecting compared to reassure 3.0. So
this is a good fair idea that it gives
you that if you're comparing unlimited
plans in the market then what is the
kind of claim performance metrics that
you should look at and how both of them
fare if you look at it most of the times
in case of ICR ICIC is up in the game in
case of claim complaints neopai is not
fairing well so ICICI again is up in the
game but in claim rejection ratio IC
Lombard is not fairing as well as NEA
bupa but in my view both of them
actually are fairing bad. So this is a
quick summary of claim settlement
performance. So let's look at the
premium difference between these two
plans that we just discussed because
it's important as much as we know what
we are going to get what we are supposed
to give to these insurance companies to
get this plan. So the unlimited
suminsured plan comparison between
reassure 3.0 and ICIC elevate is what we
will do and we'll do it for Mr. Kumar
who is 30 years old with his wife and
one kid. The premium difference is huge,
right? Reassure 3.0 comes at 26,000
and ICICL home elevate plan comes for
46,000 rupees. That's a 20,000 rupees
difference between the two plans. And
Reassure 3.0 comes with so many other
features that an ICI elevate plan does
not give. Despite that, it's offering it
at almost 20,000 rupees cheaper than the
ICI elevate plan. So clearly reassure
3.0's Z's premium is very very
aggressive or NEWAB knows something that
ICIL Numbad doesn't know for it to
charge such cheap premiums. So whenever
you're comparing only the price part and
you see a very big staff difference
between company A and company B there's
one thing that you should clearly
understand that both the companies are
basically getting to the same market and
exposed to the same hospitalization
expenses that each of these companies
will look at. So if you're seeing a very
stark difference, please understand that
most of the times this is to garner
market share to attract customers like
you and me to take this plan. In the
long run, the prices of most of the
plans will taper and come down to the
same kind of premiums and specifically
the plans where the premiums are very
low will see significant hikes in the
future. So if you are opting for a cheap
plan like Naupar 3.0, zero you should be
prepared for significant hikes in the
future because at one point in time the
premiums will level because the
environment that both these companies or
all the companies will operate will
remain the same. So here's the final
recap for reassure 3.0 zero. The product
benefits are great. We'll rate them
really really well to think through all
the wish list of features that a
customer look at. The claim metrics are
okayish when you compare it to ICS
Lombard. Both of them do not fare very
well on the key metrics that we
discussed today. So I would rate both of
them equally. But if I even rate NEAB
separately, the claim metrics are not so
great. Uh the price of course is great.
But like I said, it comes with the
caveat that sometime in the future it
will level up. Hope you got a good
glimpse into what is in store with
Reassure 3.0 NIA Bopa's latest plan. In
case you have any questions or you're
confused about anything, you can
definitely write to us in the comments
below and we will answer each of your
questions. And if you're overwhelmed
with a lot of choices in the market with
so many new features coming in, you can
definitely consult India's top 5%
experts on bashuk.org. No spam, who
charges?